---
name: Assistance request
about: Request assistance with a course assignment
title: ''
labels: help
assignees: ''
---

<!-- IMPORTANT: Please provide all of the requested information or the student
technical leaders and the course instructor will not be able to most effectively
help you to resolve this issue. -->

**Describe the challenge that you are currently facing**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please provide a clear and concise description of what challenge you are facing
and the steps that you have already taken to resolve the challenge. Is the
challenge associated with an assignment? If so, then please make sure that you
explain which assignment you are currently working on, giving a link to the
assignment sheet and excepting from the assignment sheet the part of text you
are reading and currently stuck on.

**Explain the steps you have taken so Far**

Steps to taken so far in an attempt to resolve the issue:

- Replace this text
- Replace this text
- Add as many steps as is needed

**Explain the expected behavior**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please provide a clear and concise description of what you expected to happen
when you were completing an assignment and why you thought that was the most
likely thing to happen. Make sure to explain how what you are currently seeing
as behavior is different than the behavior that you were expecting.

**Explain your execution environment**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please provide a detailed description of your execution environment, including
the make and model of your laptop, your laptop's operating system, the version
of Python installed on your laptop, and the current extensions that you are
using in VSCode.

**Explain the timeline by which you need to have this issue resolved**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please explain the timeline by which you need to resolve this issue, bearing in
mind that the individual who is requesting assistance with a course assignment
must be prepared to invest the time to triage this issue with the course
instructor and the student technical leaders.

**Give the name of at least two members of the course who are willing to
partner with you to help you to resolve this issue**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Who are at least two other members of the course who are also interested in
helping you to resolve this issue? After ensuring that these individuals also
want the course instructor and the student technical leaders to include them in
this discussion, make sure to @-mention them in this issue so that they can
review and give feedback the advice that others share concerning a way to
resolve the issue.

**Provide any additional context**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please provide any additional context about the bug in this section. Remember,
the more information that you provide the better the instructor and the student
technical leaders can work to assist you with your problems!

<!--  Encouragement: Remember, the student technical leaders and the course
instructor are committed to your success. With that said, "success" involves you
being intellectually challenged and facing and overcoming the struggles
associated with learning more about discrete structures and Python programming.
Please remember to continue to persevere and work hard even in the face of
challenges, knowing that the student technical leaders and the course instructor
will support you throughout this adventure in discrete structures and Python
programming. -->
