---
name: Bug report
about: Report a bug and help us to improve the course
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''
---

<!-- IMPORTANT: Please provide all of the requested information or the student
technical leaders and the course instructor will not be able to most effectively
help you to resolve this issue. -->

**Describe the bug**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please provide a clear and concise description of what the bug is and where you
found it. Is the bug in an assignment? Is it a bug in a video? Is there a bug in
the course slides? For each of these questions, please explain which one. If you
have found a bug in a different type of course material, please explain it in
detail.

**State the reproduction steps**

Steps to reproduce the behavior the bug that you found:

- <!-- Replace this text --!>
- <!-- Replace this text --!>

**Explain the expected behavior**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please provide a clear and concise description of what you expected to happen
and why you thought that was the most likely thing to happen.

**Explain your execution environment**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please provide a detailed description of your execution environment, including
the make and model of your laptop, your laptop's operating system, the version
of Python installed on your laptop, and the current extensions that you are
using in VSCode. If there are any other relevant details, please provide them in
this section of the issue report.

**Provide any additional context**

<!-- Please replace all of the text below this bold header. -->

Please provide any additional context about the bug in this section. Remember,
the more information that you provide the better the instructor and the student
technical leaders can work to assist you with your problems!

<!--  Encouragement: Remember, the student technical leaders and the course
instructor are committed to your success. With that said, "success" involves you
being intellectually challenged and facing and overcoming the struggles
associated with learning more about discrete structures and Python programming.
Please remember to continue to persevere and work hard even in the face of
challenges, knowing that the student technical leaders and the course instructor
will support you throughout this adventure in discrete structures and Python
programming. -->
