# Programming Tools

## Table of Contents

## GitHub

  - [GitHub](https://github.com/)
  - [Git Version Control Tool](https://git-scm.com/)
  - [Pro Git Book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)
  - [GitHub Guides on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/githubguides)

## Visual Studio Code

Since the [2019 Stack Overflow Technology
Survey](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019#technology) reports that
Visual Studio Code (or VSCode) is the most popular development environment, you
will exclusively use it to complete Python programming and technical writing
projects in the field of discrete structures. In addition to providing a wide
variety of program analysis, debugging, linting, and testing tools, VSCode
supports live share programming where two programmers can work together in the
same development environment! VSCode also features an extremely popular and
powerful Python programming extensions that will make your assignments
significantly easier.

  - [VSCode Code Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  - [VSCode Python Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python)
  - [VSCode Live Share Overview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/)
  - [VSCode Live Share Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare)
  - [VSCode Live Share Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare-pack)

## Docker

Since a Docker container provides a wide variety of programming tools that
support the implementation and assessment of a Python program, it makes it
easier for you to start programming right away! You are invited to use Docker
Desktop to run programs that the course instructor provides to you through a
Docker container. To learn more about Docker, you can visit the following web
sites:

  - [Can I Run Docker?](https://www.cs.allegheny.edu/canirundocker/)
  - [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
  - [Docker Desktop Overview](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/)
  - [Install Docker Desktop on Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)
  - [Install Docker Desktop on Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)

## Python

The Python programming language is simple and powerful! Since there are a wide
variety of development tools and packages that support programming in Python, we
will use this language as our main vehicle for exploring discrete structures.
Since the version of Python delivered by your operating system may be out of
date (or Python may not be readily available on your operating system), you are
invited to install version 3.8 of the Python programming language by using
either the Pyenv or Pyenv-win tools that are available for download from GitHub.
You can learn more about Python by visiting these web sites:

  - [Python](https://www.python.org/)
  - [Pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv)
  - [Pyenv-Win](https://github.com/pyenv-win/pyenv-win)

## Python Packages


  - [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/)
  - [Pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/)
  - [Streamlit](https://www.streamlit.io/)


## Markdown

  - [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
  - [Markdown Cheatsheet](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/)
  - [Mastering Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)

