Hello CMPSC 102 Students,

## Read This Email Carefully

This email is very long and includes many details about the CMPSC 102 course.
Instead of bombarding you with many short emails, I decided that it was best to
write you one long email that you can save and review frequently. Please take
your time to read and regularly review this email so that you are comfortable
with how the instructor designed the course, what type of work you will
complete, and the ways in which the instructor will assess your work. To ensure
that we effectively use our in-person course time, the course instructor will
assume that you have carefully read this, and any other necessary follow-on
emails, before the start of the Fall 2020 semester.

## Introduction

At the outset, you should know that I am writing this email to all of the
students who are either registered for the course or who are on the waiting list
for the course. Please understand that it is very likely that I will be able to
add all (or at least the majority) of the students on the waiting list to the
official course roster on the first day of classes, August 31, 2020.

Since I want you to stay up-to-date with the planning for our course, I
encourage you to visit the following GitHub repository for more details:

https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-102-F2020/cs102-F2020-plans

Even if you do not yet have a GitHub account, you will be able to follow along
in your web browser to see the planning that I am doing for the CMPSC 102
course.

Since I also want you to be able to easily communicate with me and the other
students who will be in the course, I have setup a Slack workspace. You can
sign-up to join the Slack workspace for free at this web site:

https://join.slack.com/t/cmpsc102fall2020/signup

If you are not sure how to visit the planning site on GitHub or to signup to our
Slack workspace, you can reply to this email with your questions. If you get
stuck on a certain step, don't worry, I will be glad to help!

## Remote Learning

Before I start to explain the details of this course and the way in which I will
teach it, I want to be upfront about the fact that some learning activities that
you will participate in this semester will involve remote interactions. With
that said, I'm confident that you will receive a top-notch introduction to
discrete structures through these remote learning opportunities! I also want to
stress that learning how to work in a remote fashion will make you more
competitive for securing a position at a technology company. If you have any
questions about remote learning, I hope that you will ask them in a public
channel in Slack --- I am glad to address any concerns that you have!

## Course Textbooks

There are two course textbooks:

- Programming and Mathematical Thinking: A Gentle Introduction to Discrete Math
  Featuring Python by Allan M. Stavely, Available at: https://is.gd/l5zfpQ

- Doing Math with Python: Use Programming to Explore Algebra, Statistics,
  Calculus, and More! By Amit Saha, Available at: https://is.gd/IQx79D

## Course Teams

To ensure that students can participate in an in-person class in a safe and
socially distanced fashion, the instructor will divide the course into two teams
that will meet on a schedule announced at the start of the Fall 2020 semester.
Within these two teams, students will be assigned to smaller sub-teams of
individuals with which they can collaborate during the completion of designated
class activities, like the completion of an assignment or the creation of a
response to the weekly technical question. The instructor will provide more
details about your course team assignments after the Fall 2020 semester starts.

## Learning Activities

This class uses the Python programming language to equip you with the
mathematical thinking skills that you will need as a software engineer. Through
the implementation and testing of Python programs, you will learn how to
characterize and manipulate a wide variety of mathematical objects, such as
numbers, sets, tuples, and functions. You will complete a wide variety of
learning activities that will help you to be proficient at:

- Remembering and understanding facts about discrete structures

- Applying and analyzing new problems in discrete structures

- Evaluating new solutions to challenges in discrete structures

Some specific activities that you will complete include the following:

- Read one of the course text books to prepare for in-class activities.

- Review course slides in advance of hands-on in-class activities.

- Watch course videos on YouTube that the instructor creates to guide
  you through an activity where you apply, analyze, and evaluate new approaches
  to solving problems with discrete structures.

- Participate in online live coding sessions where you use video, audio, and
  text to collaborate in real-time with the course instructor to implement a
  solution to a Python programming challenge.

- Participate in remote and socially distanced pair programming sessions with
  (i) other students in the course, (ii) the student technical leaders, and
  (iii) the course instructor as you refine your technical knowledge and skills
  in the context of a programming task or a laboratory or practical assignment.

- Ask and answer technical questions about discrete structures in the course's
  Slack workspace and during in-class problem solving and discussion sessions.

- Complete short and focused practical assignments that help you to master
  specific Python programming skills in the field of discrete structures.

- Complete extended laboratory assignments that help you to engineer and
  evaluate full-featured solutions to real-world programming challenges using
  newly developed knowledge about discrete mathematical structures.

## Project Assessment

You will complete all of your course work through an industry standard system
called GitHub. All students will create a free GitHub account at the start of
the Fall 2020 semester and use it to receive starter materials and submit the
final version of each laboratory and practical assignment and examination.

You will receive rapid feedback on your work through a tool called GatorGrader.
The course instructor will define GatorGrader checks for each of your laboratory
and practical assignments and your job will be use a programming language like
Python to implement a complete solution that passes all of the GatorGrader
checks. You can learn more about GatorGrader and how it works by visiting the
following web site.

https://github.com/GatorEducator/gatorgrader

Taking inspiration from the principles of specification-based grading, the grade
that a student receives on the laboratory assignments will have the following
components:

  - Percentage of Correct GatorGrader Checks: Students are encouraged to
    repeatedly try to implement a Python program that passes all of
    GatorGrader's checks by, for instance, creating a program that produces the
    correct output. Students should also repeatedly revise their technical
    writing to ensure that it also passes all of GatorGrader's checks about, for
    instance, the length of its content and its appropriate use of Markdown. The
    status of each check run by GatorGrader will be available to a student on
    their own laptop and in a GitHub dashboard available in a web browser.

  - GitHub CI Build Status: Since additional checks on the source code and/or
    technical writing may be encoded in GitHub CI's actions and, moreover, all
    of the GatorGrader checks are also run in GitHub CI, students will receive
    a checkmark grade if their last before-the-deadline build passes and a
    green checkmark in their GitHub commit log instead of a red x. As with the
    previous grading component, students are encouraged to repeatedly revise
    their source code and technical writing in an attempt to get their GitHub
    CI build to pass, thereby enabling them to earn the checkmark for this
    component of their grade.

  - Mastery of Technical Writing: Students will also receive a checkmark grade
    when the responses to the technical writing questions presented in the
    writing/reflection.md reveal a mastery of both writing skills and
    technical knowledge. To receive a checkmark grade, the submitted writing
    should have correct spelling, grammar, and punctuation in addition to
    following the rules of Markdown and providing technically accurate
    answers. Students are encouraged to ask the course instructor or a student
    technical leader to use the GitHub issue tracker to provide feedback on
    their mastery of technical writing skills.

  - Mastery of Technical Knowledge and Skills: Students will also receive a
    checkmark grade when their GitHub repository reveals that they have mastered
    all the technical knowledge and skills developed during the completion of
    this project. As a part of this grade, the instructor will assess aspects of
    the project including, but not limited to, the inclusion of effective source
    code comments, creation of effective Git commit messages, correct use of
    Docker, implementation of an efficient Python program, and correct
    installation and use of a full-fledge Python development environment.
    Students are encouraged to ask the course instructor or a student technical
    leader to use the GitHub issue tracker to provide feedback on how well their
    work demonstrates mastery of the assignment's technical knowledge and
    skills.

The sole grade for a practical assignment will be the GitHub CI Build Status,
meaning that you will receive either a checkmark or an x for the completion of
the assignment, as described in the above paragraph.

All grades for course projects will be reported through a student's GitHub
repository using either messages in the GitHub commit log or issues raised in
the issue tracker. Students should ask questions about their grade for any
project in GitHub so as to facilitate an effective conversation about the
submitted deliverables and to ensure that a student can ultimately master all of
the technical knowledge and skills developed as part of that assignment's
exploration of a specific topic in the field of discrete structures.

## Project Feedback

Students who wish to receive feedback on their work for either a practical or a
laboratory assignment should first open an issue in the issue tracker of a
project's GitHub repository, giving an appropriate title and description for the
type of feedback that you would like the course instructor and the student
technical leaders to provide. After creating this issue, a student will see that
GitHub has created a unique web site that references this issue. To alert the
course instructor and the student technical leaders to the fact that the issue
was created and that you want feedback on your work, please send it to them by a
Slack direct message at least 24 hours in advance of the project's due date.
After the instructor and/or a student technical leader responds to the issue,
please resolve all of the stated concerns and participate in the discussion
until the issue is closed on GitHub.

## Learning Assessments

Students will have numerous opportunities to demonstrate that they have mastered
the technical knowledge and skills in the field of discrete structures. In
addition to giving students feedback on all of their in-class, laboratory, and
practical assignments, the course instructor will invite students to complete
the following course assessments, thereby better helping them to assess their
mastery of course content.

- Short, weekly mastery quizzes that are administered through a web browser and
  for which a student will automatically receive a grade upon quiz completion.

- Two interim examinations that the course instructor will respectively
  administer after about the fifth week and tenth weeks of the semester.
  Students will use GitHub and a text editor to complete both of these
  examinations under the Allegheny College Honor Code.

- A final examination that the course instructor will administer on the day set
  for the final examination. Students will use GitHub and a text editor to
  complete the final examination under the Allegheny College Honor Code.

Using GitHub repositories, both the interim examinations and the final
examination will be conducted in an online fashion in an un-proctored fashion.
Students will have a set period of time to complete the examinations and will be
expected to complete them in accordance with standards that uphold the Allegheny
College Honor Code. The course instructor will assess the interim and final
examinations and report a percentage grade to a student through GitHub.

## Weekly Technical Questions

Each week of the course will have a guiding technical question designed to focus
all of the in-class activities and to ensure that students are developing a
thorough understanding of the key topics in the field of discrete structures.
Students should use their textbooks and the course slides, videos, and live
coding sessions to develop and submit a comprehensive response for each week's
technical question. At the end of the week, students will use GitHub and a text
editor to submit an answer to the question, for which they will receive an
checkmark-based assessment and feedback from the course instructor.

## Technologies for Learning About Discrete Structures

- **IMPORTANT**: All students must have a department approved laptop to take the
  CMPSC 102 course. You can learn whether or not your laptop meets the
  guidelines for being a department approved laptop by visiting this web site:

  https://www.cs.allegheny.edu/resources/laptops/

  **IMPORTANT**: If your laptop has Windows 10 Home then it DOES NOT meet the
  requirements for a department approved laptop. Students who plan to use
  Windows for the completion of work in CMPSC 102 must have Windows 10 64-bit
  Pro, Enterprise, or Education.

- You will use Docker Desktop to run programs that the course instructor
  provides to you through a Docker container. To learn more about Docker, you
  can visit the following web site:

  https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop

  To learn if your laptop can run Docker Desktop, please visit this web site:

  https://www.cs.allegheny.edu/canirundocker/

  **IMPORTANT**: All students are required to run Docker Desktop on their laptop so
  as to ensure that they can run the instructor-provided Docker containers.

- You will use version 3.8 of the Python programming language that you installed
  on your department approved laptop by using either the Pyenv or Pyenv-win
  tools that are available for download from GitHub. You can learn more about
  Python by visiting this web site:

  https://www.python.org/

  You can learn more about Pyenv and Pyenv-win by visiting these web sites:

  https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv

  https://github.com/pyenv-win/pyenv-win

- You will use the Poetry tool for managing the Python package and dependencies
  that you need to install for each laboratory or practical assignment. You can
  learn more about Poetry and its features by visiting this web site:

  https://python-poetry.org/

- You will use the VS Code text editor when you need to implement and run a
  Python program and write technical documentation in Markdown. Students who
  want to pair program with the course instructor, one of the student technical
  leaders, or another student in the class should also use VS Code's Live Share
  feature. Although students may elect to use a different text editor than VS
  Code, the course instructor and the student technical leaders will only be
  available for remote pair programming and debugging through VS Code. You can
  learn more about VS Code by visiting this web site:

  https://code.visualstudio.com/

- You will use a terminal window to allows you to execute commands such as the
  creation of a virtual environment or the execution of a Python program.
  Students may consider using a customized terminal for their operating system
  or the integrated terminal in VS Code. Students should work with the course
  instructor and the student technical leaders to ensure that their chosen
  terminal window will support all of the course activities, such as running a
  Python program, starting a Docker container, and running an assessment tool
  like GatorGrader.

- As mentioned throughout this email, we will use Slack to support course
  communication and GitHub to support the delivery of course materials to a
  student and the submission of completed projects to the instructor. Some of
  the features of GitHub that we will use throughout the semester include, but
  are not limited to, the issue tracker, the project board, and actions.
  Students must also ensure that they have the git command-line client available
  for use in their terminal window and through VS Code. Finally, students must
  be able to access their GitHub repositories both through the use of a
  secure-shell and through their web browser.

While the course instructor does not expect students to have all of of the
aforementioned programs installed on their laptop on the first day of class, you
are encouraged to explore all of these programs during the remainder of the
summer, if possible. The course instructor and the student technical leaders
will be available to help students learn how to use all of these programs.

## Conclusion

I hope that you are looking forward to exploring Python programming and
mathematical thinking as much as I am!

Throughout this semester you will be given the opportunity to master many
technical skills in the field of discrete structures, thereby preparing you for
upcoming courses and an internship in the technology field. We will be using
state-of-the-art technology to design and implement Python programs that solve
problems by applying your knowledge of discrete mathematics. One way that the
course will prepare you for work in a STEM field is through the use of
cutting-edge remote collaboration tools such as YouTube videos and live streams,
GitHub, and Slack.

Again, I recognize that this email is long and very detailed! As I mentioned
before, I decided that it was better to send you one detailed email than to send
multiple short emails. Don't forget that you can follow along with the planning
for the course by visiting the following GitHub repository:

https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-102-F2020/cs102-F2020-plans

I also encourage you to signup for our Slack workspace and to begin a discussion
with me and your classmates by clicking the following link.

https://join.slack.com/t/cmpsc102fall2020/signup

Going forward, except in the case of an emergency where we must use email, the
course will rely on Slack and GitHub for all course announcements and
discussions. Okay, I hope that you will keep in touch with me throughout the
Fall 2020 semester!
