Hello CMPSC 102 Students,

## Introduction

At the outset, you should know that I am writing this email to all of the
students who are either registered for the course or who are on the waiting list
for the course. Please understand that it is very likely that I will be able to
add all (or at least the majority) of the students on the waiting list to the
official course roster on the first day of classes, August 31, 2020.

Since I want you to stay up-to-date with the planning for our course, I
encourage you to visit the following GitHub repository for more details:

https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-102-F2020/cs102-F2020-plans

Even if you do not yet have a GitHub account, you will be able to follow along
in your web browser to see the planning that I am doing for the CMPSC 102
course.

Since I also want you to be able to easily communicate with me and the other
students who will be in the course, I have also setup a Slack workspace. You can
sign-up to join the Slack workspace for free at this web site:

https://join.slack.com/t/cmpsc102fall2020/signup

If you are not sure how to visit the planning site on GitHub or to signup to our
Slack workspace, you can reply to this email with your questions. If you get
stuck on a certain step, don't worry, I will be glad to help!

## Remote Learning

Before I start to explain the details of this course and the way in which I will
teach it, I want to be upfront about the fact that some learning activities that
you will participate in this semester will involve remote interactions. With
that said, I'm confident that you will receive a top-notch introduction to
Discrete Structures through these remote learning opportunities! I also want to
stress that learning how to work in a remote fashion will make you more
competitive for securing a position at a technology company. If you have any
questions about remote learning, I hope that you will ask them in a public
channel in Slack --- I am glad to address any concerns that you have!

## Learning Activities

This class uses the Python programming language to equip you with the
mathematical thinking skills that you will need as a software engineer. Through
the implementation and testing of Python programs, you will learn how to
characterize and manipulate a wide variety of mathematical objects, such as
numbers, sets, tuples, and functions. You will complete a wide variety of
learning activities that will help you to be proficient at:

- Remembering and understanding facts about discrete structures

- Applying and analyzing new problems in discrete structures

- Evaluating new solutions to challenges in discrete structures

Some specific activities that you will complete include the following:

- Reading one of the course text books to prepare for in-class activities

- Review course slides in advance of hands-on in-class activities

- Watch course videos on YouTube that the instructor creates to guide
  you through an activity where you apply, analyze, and evaluate new ideas
