Hello CMPSC 102 Students,

As you will recall, about one week ago I sent you an email that introduced the
CMPSC 102 course. Today I wanted to remind you of several important points about
the CMPSC 102 course and then ask you to complete a survey about your use of a
laptop for the course, only if you have not already done so.

Specifically, if you have not already done so, please complete the following
survey about the use of a laptop for the Fall 2020 semester:

https://forms.gle/wHt8F7d9o7ANh8DG6

While I recognize that many of you will have already received an invitation from
the Chair of the Department of Computer Science to complete this form, it is
possible that some students, especially if they are in their first semester at
Allegheny College or if they are on the waiting list for this course, have not
already completed this survey.

Importantly, it is mandatory for you to complete this survey before the start of
the Fall 2020 semester. If you do not have a laptop that meets the guidelines
set by the Department of Computer Science then I urge you to complete this
survey at your earliest convenience. As I mentioned in my last email to you and
I point out again in the remainder of this note, every student who enrolls in
CMPSC 102 for the Fall 2020 semester must have a laptop that is approved for use
in the Department of Computer Science.

Here are the three key points I want you to remember from my previous email:

-- 1) Since I want you to stay up-to-date with the planning for our course, I
encourage you to visit the following GitHub repository for more details:

https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-102-F2020/cs102-F2020-plans

If you have not already checked the GitHub repository, then please do so! I will
also be updating the content in this repository throughout the next two weeks
and then during the entirety of the Fall 2020 academic semester.

-- 2) Since I also want you to be able to easily communicate with me and the other
students who will be in the course, I have setup a Slack workspace. You can
sign-up to join the Slack workspace for free at this web site:

https://join.slack.com/t/cmpsc102fall2020/signup

If you have not already joined our Slack workspace, then please do so at your
earliest convenience. Instead of using email for communication during the Fall
2020 academic semester I will primarily communicate with students through Slack.
In addition to informally chatting with the other people in the course, you can
also start asking me questions through Slack at any time!

-- 3) All students must have a department approved laptop to take the CMPSC 102
course. You can learn whether or not your laptop meets the guidelines for being
a department approved laptop by visiting this web site:

https://www.cs.allegheny.edu/resources/laptops/

Please note that, along with bringing a laptop, you must have headphones that
will allow you to participate in online sessions while hearing all content
through your headphones. As your schedule permits during the remainder of the
summer, I encourage you to please explore the various programs I mentioned in my
previous email so that you are able to participate in all course activities.

Here is a summary of the technologies that we will use during the semester:

- You will use Docker Desktop to run programs that the course instructor
  provides to you through a Docker container. To learn more about Docker, you
  can visit the following web site:

  https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop

  To learn if your laptop can run Docker Desktop, please visit this web site:

  https://www.cs.allegheny.edu/canirundocker/

  **IMPORTANT**: All students are required to run Docker Desktop on their laptop so
  as to ensure that they can run the instructor-provided Docker containers.

- You will use version 3.8 of the Python programming language that you installed
  on your department approved laptop by using either the Pyenv or Pyenv-win
  tools that are available for download from GitHub. You can learn more about
  Python by visiting this web site:

  https://www.python.org/

  You can learn more about Pyenv and Pyenv-win by visiting these web sites:

  https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv

  https://github.com/pyenv-win/pyenv-win

- You will use the Poetry tool for managing the Python package and dependencies
  that you need to install for each laboratory or practical assignment. You can
  learn more about Poetry and its features by visiting this web site:

  https://python-poetry.org/

- You will use the VS Code text editor when you need to implement and run a
  Python program and write technical documentation in Markdown. Students who
  want to pair program with the course instructor, one of the student technical
  leaders, or another student in the class should also use VS Code's Live Share
  feature. Although students may elect to use a different text editor than VS
  Code, the course instructor and the student technical leaders will only be
  available for remote pair programming and debugging through VS Code. You can
  learn more about VS Code by visiting this web site:

  https://code.visualstudio.com/

- You will use a terminal window to allows you to execute commands such as the
  creation of a virtual environment or the execution of a Python program.
  Students may consider using a customized terminal for their operating system
  or the integrated terminal in VS Code. Students should work with the course
  instructor and the student technical leaders to ensure that their chosen
  terminal window will support all of the course activities, such as running a
  Python program, starting a Docker container, and running an assessment tool
  like GatorGrader.
