# Assessment Strategy

## Table of Contents



## Assignment Types

- [Technical Challenge](../assignments/technical-challenge.md)
- [Practical Assignment](../assignments/practical-assignment.md)
- [Laboratory Assignment](../assignments/laboratory-assignment.md)

## Assessment Overview

You will complete all of your course work through an industry standard system
called [GitHub](https://www.github.com). All students will create a free GitHub
account at the start of the Fall 2020 semester. You will use this account and
the GitHub repositories associated with it to receive starter materials and
submit the final version of each technical challenge, laboratory and practical assignment and
examination.

You will receive rapid feedback on your work through a tool called
[GatorGrader](https://github.com/GatorEducator/gatorgrader). The course
instructor will define GatorGrader checks for each type of course assignment and
your job will be use a programming language like Python to implement a complete
solution that passes all of the GatorGrader checks. In addition to running the
GatorGrader tool on your laptop, you will see the results from running
GatorGrader checks in the GitHub Actions continuous integration environment.

## Assessing Laboratory Assignments

Taking inspiration from the principles of [specification-based
grading](http://rtalbert.org/return-to-specs-grading-calculus/), the grade that
a student receives on a laboratory assignment will be based on whether or not it
meets the standards for technical work in the fields of software engineering and
discrete structures. Instead of receiving a numerical or letter grade for this
assignment, your grade will have the following components:

- **Percentage of Correct GatorGrader Checks**: Students are encouraged to
  repeatedly try to implement a Python program that passes all of GatorGrader's
  checks by, for instance, creating a program that produces the correct output.
  Students should also repeatedly revise their technical writing to ensure that
  it also passes all of GatorGrader's checks about, for instance, the length of
  its content and its appropriate use of Markdown.

- **Travis CI Build Status**: Since additional checks on the source code and/or
  technical writing may be encoded in Travis CI's actions and, moreover, all of
  the GatorGrader checks are also run in Travis CI, students will receive a
  checkmark grade if their last before-the-deadline build passes and a green
  &#x2714; appears in their GitHub commit log instead of a red &#x2717;. As with
  the previous grading component, students are encouraged to repeatedly revise
  their source code and technical writing in an attempt to get their Travis CI
  build to pass.

- **Mastery of Technical Writing**: Students will also receive a checkmark grade
  when the responses to the technical writing questions presented in the
  `writing/reflection.md` reveal a mastery of both writing skills and technical
  knowledge. To receive a checkmark grade, the submitted writing should have
  correct spelling, grammar, and punctuation in addition to following the rules
  of Markdown and providing technically accurate answers. Students are
  encouraged to ask the course instructor or a student technical leader to use
  the GitHub issue tracker to provide feedback on their mastery of technical
  writing skills.

- **Mastery of Technical Knowledge and Skills**: Students will also receive a
  checkmark grade when their GitHub repository reveals that they have mastered
  all of the technical knowledge and skills developed during the completion of
  this project. As a part of this grade, the instructor will assess aspects of
  the project including, but not limited to, the use of effective source code
  comments and Git commit messages. Students are encouraged to ask the course
  instructor or a student technical leader to use the GitHub issue tracker to
  provide feedback on how well their work demonstrates mastery of the
  assignment's technical knowledge and skills.


## Assessment Delivery

All grades for course projects will be reported through a student's GitHub
repository using either messages in the GitHub commit log or issues raised in
the issue tracker. Students should ask questions about their grade for any
project in GitHub so as to facilitate an effective conversation about the
submitted deliverables and to ensure that a student can ultimately master all of
the technical knowledge and skills developed as part of that assignment's
exploration of a specific topic in the field of discrete structures.
